# ARM64 Assembly Simulator

This repository contains a lightweight ARM64 assembly code and memory simulator designed to parse and execute ARM64 assembly instructions from `.s` files, typically generated by IDA Pro's disassembly. It's an ideal tool for those looking to understand the behavior of ARM64 instructions, particularly useful for educational purposes, security analysis, and performance tuning.

## Features

- **Lightweight and Standalone**: Easy to deploy and run without heavy dependencies.
- **Direct Parsing from IDA Outputs**: Seamlessly integrates with disassembly files generated by IDA Pro.
- **Detailed Execution Trace**: Tracks and displays changes in register and memory states after each instruction execution.
- **Support for Step-by-step and Continuous Execution**: Offers flexibility in instruction execution to cater to different analysis needs.
- **Simulates Register and Memory Operations**: Enhances understanding of ARM64 operations through practical simulation.

## Use Cases

- **Educational Tool**: Helps in learning and teaching the structure and applications of the ARM64 instruction set.
- **Prototyping and Testing**: Allows for quick simulation of instruction effects before actual implementation.
- **Security Analysis**: Useful in analyzing how code manipulations affect program states, potentially uncovering security vulnerabilities.
- **Performance Analysis**: Assists in understanding and optimizing code that is critical for performance.

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites

Ensure you have Python 3.x installed on your machine. This simulator does not require any additional libraries for basic operations.

### Installation

Clone the repository to your local machine:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/suifei/arm64-assembly-simulator.git
cd arm64-assembly-simulator
```

### Usage

1. Place your `.s` files containing ARM64 assembly code in the `src/samples` directory.
2. Run the simulator with the following command:

```bash
cd arm64_simulator
python arm64_simulator.py
```

### Configuration

You can modify the `ARM64Simulator` class instantiation in `arm64_simulator.py` to enable step-by-step execution or verbose output, depending on your analysis needs.

```python
simulator = ARM64Simulator(memory_data, step_pause=True, verbose=True)
simulator.run(asm_code, starting_address)
```

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please feel free to submit pull requests, suggest features, or report bugs.

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

## Author

- **<suifei@gmail.com>**

Feel free to contact me for any questions or feedback related to this project.
